um
yes
i guess i would say is um you know church service
my people come to her services it's like okay
we're going to have music we're having somebody
who's going to preach right so those two things
are very important right here but i think one
element that is missed sometimes it's fellowship
connecting and so wanting to give space to do
that in the middle of service before service after
service that's one of the things we talk about
every morning on sunday lunch we come in as a team
at nine o'clock and we talk about the importance
of connecting because god has designed us to
connect and to encourage one another and to pray
for one another and so i love being with his face
what would i say is that this gives you
opportunity to even process maybe what god is
talking about um invites you into walking through
this text and so we have been walking through the
book of ephesians so if you've got a bible you go
to ephesians chapter 6 um starting in verse 10 if
you don't my encouragement is two things on your
way out we have bibles on our next steps table
number two download the the holy bible app
or the you version that's one of the greatest
apps to keep with you to bring them to you if
you don't have a bible and don't have a phone
i'm going to have i believe behind you so you'll
see it behind me um before we jump in i just want
to mention this as i just was thinking through
this week um and we're moving today just to be
honest i'm just really excited about what god is
doing and what god is going to do in the days to
come i'm excited to be working with this mission
team this week it's going to be a great weekend
maybe that's for you remember you're reflecting on
what god has done for you um and so this is what
i've heard this is you know in my belief that
god's going to continue to do amazing things in
our church we're still new right we just launched
three months ago it's this idea that god has so
abundantly pursued me called me and saved me if he
has done that right individually and god has done
that for me that you can do exceedingly abundantly
more than i can ask for thank you that's actually
where he talked about what he desires god
desires to do exceedingly abundantly more
than we can think and so it's that belief that i
have to remind myself that god
is doing something and god's
i was talking about this again to our
team earlier but ephesians chapter 6 at
this point is concluding the book we've been
in this book since january um but it's just
paul saying his word finally so he's concluding
the same chapter i've told you all these things
finally hold on to these things and this is what i
believe he's going to share with us today and next
week until we finish the rest of this this chapter
is this idea that we don't fight for victory
i'll say that again we don't fight for victory
we fight from victory so let me explain that a
little bit everybody knows that anybody goes into
a battle let's just even get into the sports world
um you watched the fights last night maybe i don't
know if he did it once last night each one of
those guys went into fights and if you don't know
what i'm talking about it's mma they fight anyways
they win in both of them to fight for victory one
came out victorious if we are following jesus we
walk into everything before we start how's that so
because it's not dependent upon us it's definitely
through jesus on the cross and that idea is so
important especially as we walk into the biggest
tips because what we're going to realize is every
person is in a battle every day every person is in
a battle every day whether you're right or not
you'll walk into one and it's about for your
life for your soul uh for what your your desired
purpose is in this this world and in this life
and the question is who's going to win see
god's already one it's whether we believe it
we proclaim it we put on our full armor as we'll
talk about and we walk into life victorious or
whether we allow the enemies to pass that's on
us god's already given us accepted and followed
through and so in these final verses paul's not
introducing anything new what i love about this is
when you walk into this book and paul is sharing
things like this let me just kind of share this
paul shared this in the first three chapters
god has done everything for you he has given
everything to you salvation life security power
love grace mercy unity with other people then he
talked about hey this is what it looks like with
other people and relationships we talked about
what it looked like in unity marriage and with
your kids and with your job which was last week
so all these things kind of come to this point
we're also not talking about anything new
in the verses we're going to cover he's
actually affirming to use these verses to
really encourage us and so all of these verses
that we're going to cover in the final chapter
6 some of you may have heard the armor of god
right and i know that the youth of the youth did
until next week so hold on and the
reason why is because we need to know
who we're fighting if we're going into battle we
need to know who we're gonna find so let's take
some time to read this again ephesians chapter
six um starting in verse 10 13 it says this
finally be strengthened by the lord and by his
vast strength put on the full armor of god so
that you can stand against the skins of the devil
for our struggle is not against flesh and blood
but against the rulers against the authorities
against the cosmic powers of this darkness against
evil spiritual forces in the heavens for
this reason take up the full armor of god
so that you may be able to resist an evil day and
having prepared everything to take your stand so
let's take some time to pray lord jesus um we are
the lord just asking for you to to help us as we
read the word i pray that our hearts and our minds
are open to what you have shared this word we know
that your word is truth and uh something that we
can apply to our lives or help us see it and um
so questions anybody ever had a
dream where you went to school
here's the thing here's something
but what i'm trying to to help get in the process
this idea is god is giving us a full armor to put
on every single day ever since then we're
going to talk about what that foreigner is
but he's giving us this to protect us against
but again there's times and i'll just there's
times i get in the midst of my day and i look
down and i realize i did not invite god but not
invite this armor into my life and so because
of that all saying hey don't miss this this is
so important remember this every single day so he
starts off here i love that and finally really is
paul summarizing everything he just said you know
he's saying just make sure that you do this right
and i love this word he says to be strengthened by
this vast strength you know i think about this um
those of you who know me i work out right
through the race and i start thinking my kids
tell me this all the time hey dad show me your
muscles right and i'm strong right to my kids
but that's not anything compared to god's
vast strength you know that's like laughable
to think that i'm strong enough apart from god
to really defeat the enemy that is in my life
and my strength isn't even comparable to god's
strength and he says this vast strength is really
it's a great extent of quantitative terms right
so he won't run out and i i think about this
over and over again because in the middle of my
workouts i run out of energy yesterday i was going
to work out with tea and outside i couldn't do
more push-ups like i was done i ran out of power
and strength but see god has faster god doesn't
run out of strength and see that's encouraging
we should be encouraging to you as well as
in the midst of the battles that we face
maybe in school maybe in our homes to pay for jobs
physically in our marriages whatever it is god has
the ability to overcome with his bachelor so
whenever you ran out of strength he asked he's
just hitting his heart i love that idea of this
vast strength and so his strength um can withstand
attacks and so let me ask this question i
know this may just be a practical question
but i want us to all get this idea who needs god's
strength so you tell me who needs god's strength
right that should be an easy answer
everyone needs to have strength
how many people who think that they're strong
maybe they think they're strong enough to handle
them around do you think that they still need
that strength here here's the thing though have
you ever gotten a situation where you had it
all figured out you didn't even tell anybody
see that's us rejecting someone else's
strength that's us rejecting god's strength
it's only those who realize they're weak who will
ever receive god's strength see that's the part i
love about god god doesn't force anything on us
see a lot of times we think of god as this god
that forces us into these situations this is what
we have to do no absolutely not you don't have to
you get to you have the opportunity to it's your
choice but god so loves you that he's extended
everything to you we're talking about embrace love
and mercy right every one of us whether we realize
they're not um need god see we were born into sin
right sin is anything that we think say do we're
so you know we're pretty much doing that
throughout the day whether we probably recognize
that or not so we're right at that point we have
been separated from god but god said that's not
good i'm not happy with that separation he
says i'm going to send my son jesus to die
on a cross for you because the only
way to be forgiven of those sins
is to be punished for them and whether that
must be punished god said i'll punish my son
jesus who will receive all the punishment
of your sins and my sense of the rest of our
lives that we have right and at that moment
god says i've extended this gift to you
to receive my son as the replacement of your
understanding right to be forgiven of your sins
and to be able to receive this strength but day
after day even believers day after day will reject
his strength because this is what they say i'll
come to you on the big things but i got it anybody
ever said that i mean maybe not out loud but we
know you thought i know i thought god i'll invite
you in on the big things but that's not who god is
god says that he works greatest in jesus right and
so we need to realize this before we can even move
forward is why do we even need strength from god
well because we have an enemy that is pursuing
us an enemy that wants to defeat us and uh
when you start talking about the enemy
in the bible i didn't kind of go really
there's an enemy called the devil and there's
all these principalities and those things
the truth is there is it's
hard to compromise but it is
when i get sick i don't want to go to the
doctor because i don't need to go to the doctor
when i have a project i need to do i'm going
to do it on my home because i don't need help
except friday i asked me because
i didn't know what i was doing
but most of the time i'm saying i
don't know how to do these things
you know where that's got me alone really sick
and further behind my projects it's not healthy
so we're looking at this who needs strength
whether they realize that they're weak or not
everyone needs got strength because we have an end
we're all in a battle and we're in a battle with
one victory i like winning games i am competitive
well so does god he wins every time i love that
so how do stand against all the things that paul
talks about here let's look at verse 11 here so
again so he says finally be strengthened by the
lord revise that strength in verse 11 says this
then put on the full armor of
god so that you can stand against
the schemes of the devil and so this idea of
standing right we know that when you're in
i don't sometimes you get knocked down but god
says he wants you to stand in the greatest ways
what is that well here's what we
realized is he talks about this
schemes right he says you should put
on this whole arm so that you can
stand against the schemes the devils you
anybody know what the word schemes means
it's good anybody else
basically he's right he's
working ways to try to treat you
consistently so in order to be able to reject the
schemes of the devil which is this what little
battles that are going on in our lives in order
to reject that we have to put on the full armor
of god and so here's i'm going to mention these
things but we're going to come back next week
these are the armors that he talks about is how
we are strengthening this threatening on this
armor is the belt of truth the breastplate of
righteousness the sandals of the gospel of peace
the shield of faith the helmet of salvation
and the sword of the spirit why didn't he
just say things easier than that i don't
know but he wanted to get this imagery
of this armor and i think of you
know i'd rather honor i think
right i mean this is logical i'm trying to build
this case in my head so as you guys can hear me
share today as a pastor i spend time studying
god's word you know how does this question
what makes sense to me or do you think it's
totally different than how i'm presenting it
you're going into a football game you'd be
crazy not to put on all these protections
right the shields these cards all these
things so if we're going to defeat our enemy
and it's the same idea with the lords that's
when you put these things on you feel stronger
you realize you have the ability to be all the
things that you have in your life but the only
way we'll realize that we need this honor is if we
understand that we have anything right so who is
harry potter the one who shall not be named i'm
like why don't you just say his name like who
cares like he can be named it's not gonna change
anything right it's good to name your enemies and
sometimes we don't because he realize behind he
wants to scheme against us right so his name is
the devil and so if we're going to fight for
victory we need to learn to walk in that truth
right but we have victory every battle we want
but god's already defeated the devil we need to
be strengthened by god's power right and when
we're fighting it's important to understand
our enemy any good commander going to bow is
going to study how his enemy fights because
then he knows how to do thinking so us it's good
for us to know so let's look at our names right
here in verse 12. this is where it kind of is
okay this is real and the truth is so it says
this for our struggle is not against flesh and
blood but against the rulers and against the
authorities and against the cosmic powers of this
darkness against evil spiritual forces in heaven
first thing we address who are in this amount
so somebody tell me who is not our enemy
each other because i'm telling you this i've
been in enough rights arguments with my spouse or
someone else and we have to kind of laugh after i
don't know why because we realize it's even trying
to fit us against each other because that's not
god's design god's design is not for us to like
and i think back to whenever paul was talking
about marriage whenever you do get married he says
you're one right you're one and what that means
is at that point if someone wants to look at you
you shouldn't be two different people that
you should be one and you should not be
departed if that makes sense and so
as couples just a thing here as you're
fighting each other you're actually fighting
yourself like that's really how paul explained
you're fighting each other you're arguing with
each other you're you're fighting yourself so
here's what paul does he says i'm going to
take a step up you're not fighting against
other people you're fighting against all these
things that are controlling these people right so
when you look at a person you say hey i'm
frustrated both of you need to go to the
lord right remember this study that i said
when it comes to your marriage go to the lord
and come back together and we'll talk a
little bit more about that is as we kind of
should before each other because if not they're
distracted from the real enemy so this is this
other idea is sometimes we're fighting the
wrong battles so step out there some of you have
arguments and fights with your boss
some of you having with your teachers
or other friends and you're arguing with them
you're so frustrated and the truth is right and
the enemy's trying to divide and we all need to
realize in this moment hey let's stop fighting
each other let's invite god into this conversation
and let's deal with it in a way of defeating any
knowing that we have victory over wherever that
was and it talks about this this is interesting
when we look at this is um it's different
when you look at it from the perspective of
people right when we think okay paul's speaking
to this text to believers so between two believers
we shouldn't be fighting but what do you do if
somebody else has another lord what do you do
maybe it's maybe it's you maybe you don't know
the word maybe somebody else knows the word
how do you not fight against each other well
it's this idea again that anybody that doesn't
know christ is controlled by the enemy and this
is where ephesians 2. this is this is a tough one
there's anything for me to think back to i want
to bring this ephesians 2 you guys want to go back
there verses 1 through 4. those who before christ
um this is how we lived or if maybe you don't know
christ this is how you're living and this is god's
word and i know sometimes it's tough to come here
expense and this is something i want to talk
through but he says this before christ he says
and you were dead in your trespasses and sins in
which you previously lived according to the ways
of the world according to the ruler of the power
of the earth and the spirit now working in this
opinion we all too previously lived among them in
our fleshly desires carrying out the inclinations
of our flesh and thoughts and were by nature
children under that as the others were also
here's what those verses say anybody apart from
christ is actually controlled by the devil within
him right he's on that side he's working against
god and it's not that idea that's where we all
have to stay is that idea of really god saying
that is where we were controlled so when we
allow the enemy to to divide us so it's
believers we're going back to our old nature
we're allowing the enemy when we're going back
to the other side but how do we handle it if
someone doesn't know christ here's the thing
the same way our enemy is not that person
our enemy is satan he's the devil he's the
one that's trying to control and manipulate
situations so we love people i don't care what
the relationship is with jesus or not love him
we're not here to be creative and this is one
of the greatest things that i mentioned here
is sometimes our fightings look different right
when it comes to someone we don't know if they
know christ or not um maybe we should be careful
how we post on social media if we don't know
where someone is at and i mentioned social media
because that's one of the greatest places i think
a lot of us feel in power right now you probably
don't know what twitter is instagram right fill
out power to say what you want and then all of
a sudden you realize you know what my that's
familiar with the adventure movies this is going
to be a great one ready for this do you remember
where some of the avengers were controlled
by their minds were controlled and it was
tough for the other adventurers to fight against
them because they knew that it wasn't truly them
fighting them it was the person who's controlling
them if that makes sense to you or maybe you don't
know avengers i'm sorry you missed the reference
but it's important because i think about this
guys that's exactly what it is when we're fighting
against people rather than against the true enemy
of the devil we're missing the point and we need
to to understand that god is giving us the power
of faith so that's the first thing that's not
that easy is each other right but then he goes on
then he goes on he says um you know again all
these principalities and these authorities and
these cosmic powers which are so um outside of my
brain continue to comprehend it god clearly gives
us the details of who we're going to need right
um so let's just kind of walk through this leader
is the devil you know he has many different names
but the devil means accuser another name is satan
um a couple of different places in the bible
talks about who he is he's a tempter in matthew
4 3 he's a murderer and a liar in john 8 44
he's compared to a lion in first peter 5 8
and a serpent in genesis 3 1. so the enemy plays a
lot of different roles and has a lot of different
i guess things that is recognized as him but the
one thing that we do know that this is important
is in the beginning satan was a creative being
right so he's not god he's not all-knowing he's
not all controlling and i think at times
we allow the enemy to say he's everywhere
we can control god know god allows things to
happen to you but it's for a greater purpose
to test you or to bring you back to him and
so nowhere that the enemy goes is available
for you to give you strength right we'll talk
about this honor and so how does god accomplish
so much
how does the devil accomplish so much across
the whole world and this is where we look at
there's multiple helpers where it mentions you
right it's not just one if you go to revelation
i think it's revelation 12 he talks about whatever
so he has other people on his team but there's
still a bigger army and a bigger guy who
defeats our enemy and so he calls them rulers
and authorities and cosmic powers and darkness
uh and this is the enemy that we're
against right where are they located
in the heavens or in the spiritual
rounds that we cannot see
so i don't fully understand all of them i don't
really understand but i do understand this
whenever i am battling it's not against you
it's not against my brothers and sisters
it's against the dead that's against anything that
we sometimes can't physically see but he's better
so it's not um again another person i think
that's important for us as we go through when
we walk through this armor and then the next
few weeks is that we understand that we are in
a battle not with each other right but that with
another enemy so how do we fight against i think
that's the the thing how do we fight against our
treatment and before we get into the full armor
of god we really see that god reminds us that
it is the floor for god that will completely
control or be able to resist so he says that in
verse 13. for this reason take up the harmony so
that you may be able to resist an evil day and
having prepared everything to take your stand
see whenever i think about this is paul is
affirming something you hear somebody say it
once right i'll give you a great example my
son when we had something hot on the stove
i was going to tell him hey watch
out don't touch anything on the stove
but because i know my son i know he's three i
typically tell him about two three four nine times
to make sure he does because i don't want him to
touch the stuff see paul did the same thing right
he said be strengthening the lord his father and
put on this form of god right then he talks about
who the enemy is it's the devil and it's all these
principalities and all these things and he says
for this reason take up the form of god it's paul
affirming that is the only thing that will defeat
sin is taking up the form of god satan must be
a strong ending we have to take before right not
just partial honor and i think that's the part too
at times it's like we'll pick up the shield but we
don't need anything else no god's saying before
complete honor of god and he uses those schemes
to write against us these cunning acts and this
is where he's talking about to be able to resist
so one of the sadie's greatest tactics is the
twist truths anybody remember when jesus uh
after he was baptized into the lives of 40 days
40 nights didn't eat anything and then the enemy
came and said he came and he began to try to
tempt him to seek him with what remember what
the bible the word and jesus said basically you're
twisting this let me give you the truth and so he
quotes that truth to me and basically that life
right this is the greatest way that the importance
it takes a little bit of truth and you'll twist it
so god has given us the word of truth and this is
something i think i've encouraged you before and
now get in order don't just take my word for it
get in the word because god individually wants
to listen he wants you to know the word and as
you know the word and anything that i share you
can come up to me and say hey something doesn't
sound right and we can sit down and talk about
it because i'm glad to be on the counterweight
so when we are listening to others filter
it through the word of truth so that's just
one of the things we're going to talk about
about the truth next week but like that's
one of the things that he uses where he
likes to deceive us and twist these truths
so god has given us everything we
need to defeat the speeds of the devil
and we're going to talk about all those
things i know we've made a lot of time
today and just walk through every bit of the
armor so take time this week to read through
all the armor that god gives us to be able
to stand against our enemies the question is
do we all have enemies yes we do they're
not our flesh and blood but really true
i think one of the hardest things to
realize we started watching the chosen
series last night if you guys haven't
watched that it's a really good series
but it was this moment where mary had
went back to our former way of life
she became not married mother mary she came to
jesus this instance where she said i can't do it
this is what mary said she said i can't do it
and jesus looked at her and said no you can't
but i can't um he says i don't request
muslims she said well basically
where i realized how much god loves us like just
that picture of watching that part of the episode
god loves everyone with so much and we sometimes
complicate what it means to come into faith in
jesus as though we have to bring a perfect
record to god and if we don't i can't give
my life to jesus that was me for a solid year of
my life until i realized i'm never going to be
good enough i've got to come to jesus bro just
like mary did on the show that we're watching
and i have to say i'm sorry and i have to ask
about it god you know he's not going to hang
mission is to inspire by helping people
discover god's purpose for their life
for a relationship with jesus we really
believe god has a specific purpose for you
for you not just for this church but for you that
will only happen through a relationship with jesus
and so as we take time to go through this type
of invitation usually sing a song it's not just
for us just to sit there and sing a song watch at
least in the song it's really for us to consider
what god is speaking to us and i wanted to
share some truths that i know god speaks
to us through his word god loves you he created
you he desires a personal relationship with you
he ran after his greatest creation even
though he's in the history he provided a way
for us to be saved to live in the
future we don't fight before we fight
letting this foreign stop say your wrestling
was maybe the way that you've been living
and you are christ's father today's day a great
day repentance asking god for you that's what it
means to jesus you don't fully know what that
means you don't have to know all the answers
you just have to realize this if you don't
mind just take a minute there close your eyes
mention a few things for you to ask the
lord before we go to this kind of invitation
if god has given you everything to
overcome your enemy and your dating battles
then you need to ask this question
and i just i just challenge you ask the lord
right now in your heart lord have i certainly
maybe in your heart god will answer that and
say yes or no here's another question lord
have i ever asked for you to forgive my sins
so i don't know what god spoke to you
in those moments maybe god said yes
to everyone else maybe there's a couple work i
did here's my encouragement for you if you haven't
given your life to jesus and surrendering your
life if you haven't ask for forgiveness if you
haven't allowed god to fight your battles today is
the day of the salvation today is the day of jesus
here's what i want to offer
is during this time invitation
i just want to talk to anybody who
needs prayer i want to talk to anybody
that needs just encouragement i want
to talk to anybody that needs to give
their life to jesus desires to talk more
about what that means in the life of jesus
because i know the god who loves me who
saved me so desires to know you personally
and so when i pray just stay with me
worship again if you want to be prayed with
i want to talk about what it means to
your life to jesus just come talk to us
so lord jesus thank you lord for
today uh lord i have today maybe
just a tough text lord to even think through
and process through that we would even need
this vast strength words to be our enemy in
the devil and that there is even such a thing
as an enemy that has principalities and powers
and things that we just don't fully understand
but lord we know that word is true that we
understand that we do have an enemy that's greater
than um we're just the person sitting next to
us that we may be frustrated so lord you haven't
left us though without the ability to overcome
this thank you lord for a full honor of god
and lord i pray for each person this reward if
they've given their lives to you lord that they
what they need to do or maybe it's repentance
or maybe it's just reminding themselves to
pick up a couple of pieces of armor a day put
them on we're not praying for the person's room
for this wrestling through what it means
to give their lives to jesus and that they
take time their expectation to come back
and talk to me and talk to to bring me
um and just say hey i have questions we're going
to pray for that person today they're bold enough
there's nothing something that's
the word we just pray all these
things you